Let us hear
Let us hear this Christian young man Hanskum.
this Christian young man Hanskum.
this Christian young man Hanskum. Hanskung
Hanskung
Hanskung he's written a book called infallible
he's written a book called infallible
he's written a book called infallible question mark. Author of being Christian
question mark. Author of being Christian
question mark. Author of being Christian he says who is this man Hanskung I don't
he says who is this man Hanskung I don't
he says who is this man Hanskung I don't know whether I'm pronouncing it
know whether I'm pronouncing it
know whether I'm pronouncing it correctly. Please forgive me. You know
correctly. Please forgive me. You know
correctly. Please forgive me. You know the Scandinavian language is a bit
the Scandinavian language is a bit
the Scandinavian language is a bit difficult on my tongue.
difficult on my tongue.
difficult on my tongue. The 43-year-old Swissborn
The 43-year-old Swissborn
The 43-year-old Swissborn Swissborn professor of dogmatic and
Swissborn professor of dogmatic and
Swissborn professor of dogmatic and ecumenical theology and director of the
ecumenical theology and director of the
ecumenical theology and director of the Institute of Ecumenical Studies at
Institute of Ecumenical Studies at
Institute of Ecumenical Studies at Tubingan University in West Germany was
Tubingan University in West Germany was
Tubingan University in West Germany was one of the select group of official
one of the select group of official
one of the select group of official theologians appointed during the Vatican
theologians appointed during the Vatican
theologians appointed during the Vatican 2 council by Pope John himself.
2 council by Pope John himself.
2 council by Pope John himself. known as the young proteé of modern
known as the young proteé of modern
known as the young proteé of modern theology and consequently may not be
theology and consequently may not be
theology and consequently may not be interpreted. Uh he says now nowhere do
interpreted. Uh he says now nowhere do
interpreted. Uh he says now nowhere do the books he says nowhere do the books
the books he says nowhere do the books
the books he says nowhere do the books of the new testament claim to have
of the new testament claim to have
of the new testament claim to have fallen directly from heaven. Nowhere.
fallen directly from heaven. Nowhere.
fallen directly from heaven. Nowhere. This is what our friend Hanskung says.
This is what our friend Hanskung says.
This is what our friend Hanskung says. On the contrary, often enough, they
On the contrary, often enough, they
On the contrary, often enough, they quite candidly emphasize quite candidly,
quite candidly emphasize quite candidly,
quite candidly emphasize quite candidly, honestly, they emphasize
honestly, they emphasize
honestly, they emphasize the human origin.
the human origin.
the human origin. Luke chapter 1 verses 1 and two is
Luke chapter 1 verses 1 and two is
Luke chapter 1 verses 1 and two is especially revealing on the origin of
especially revealing on the origin of
especially revealing on the origin of the gospels. Especially revealing.
the gospels. Especially revealing.
the gospels. Especially revealing. What does it say? Luke 1:es 1 and 2.
What does it say? Luke 1:es 1 and 2.
What does it say? Luke 1:es 1 and 2. Luke tells us, he doesn't talk about him
Luke tells us, he doesn't talk about him
Luke tells us, he doesn't talk about him being tickled by the Holy Ghost or by
being tickled by the Holy Ghost or by
being tickled by the Holy Ghost or by the Holy Spirit to write his words. He
the Holy Spirit to write his words. He
the Holy Spirit to write his words. He says here, verse two, just as those who
says here, verse two, just as those who
says here, verse two, just as those who from the beginning were eyewitnesses and
from the beginning were eyewitnesses and
from the beginning were eyewitnesses and ministers of the word delivered them to
ministers of the word delivered them to
ministers of the word delivered them to us, it seemed good to me also.
us, it seemed good to me also.
us, it seemed good to me also. If every Tom, Dick, and Harry people
If every Tom, Dick, and Harry people
If every Tom, Dick, and Harry people less educated myself than myself, if
less educated myself than myself, if
less educated myself than myself, if they can write volumes, me a physician,
they can write volumes, me a physician,
they can write volumes, me a physician, one of the most learned of the followers
one of the most learned of the followers
one of the most learned of the followers of Christianity at the time, why can't I
of Christianity at the time, why can't I
of Christianity at the time, why can't I do a better job?
do a better job?
do a better job? This is his inspiration. The others, you
This is his inspiration. The others, you
This is his inspiration. The others, you can do it. You can do it. Why can't I?
can do it. You can do it. Why can't I?
can do it. You can do it. Why can't I? I'm more learner than you. So he says,
I'm more learner than you. So he says,
I'm more learner than you. So he says, "It seemed good to me also, having had
"It seemed good to me also, having had
"It seemed good to me also, having had perfect understanding of all things from
perfect understanding of all things from
perfect understanding of all things from the very first to write to you an
the very first to write to you an
the very first to write to you an orderly account, most excellent
orderly account, most excellent
orderly account, most excellent Theophilus." The only thing he claims is
Theophilus." The only thing he claims is
Theophilus." The only thing he claims is that the other writings are not orderly.
that the other writings are not orderly.
that the other writings are not orderly. Mine will be an orderly account. Mark is
Mine will be an orderly account. Mark is
Mine will be an orderly account. Mark is jumping here, there, and everywhere.
jumping here, there, and everywhere.
jumping here, there, and everywhere. Mine won't be like that. Mine will be an
Mine won't be like that. Mine will be an
Mine won't be like that. Mine will be an orderly book. That is he does not claim
orderly book. That is he does not claim
orderly book. That is he does not claim to be inspired by God or by the Holy
to be inspired by God or by the Holy
to be inspired by God or by the Holy Ghost or by the Holy Spirit. His
Ghost or by the Holy Spirit. His
Ghost or by the Holy Spirit. His inspiration is the people that went
inspiration is the people that went
inspiration is the people that went before him who had done the job.
before him who had done the job.
before him who had done the job. And in this book of Luke
And in this book of Luke
And in this book of Luke chapter 3 verse 23
chapter 3 verse 23
chapter 3 verse 23 we have the genealogy of Jesus.
we have the genealogy of Jesus.
we have the genealogy of Jesus. It reads, "And Jesus
It reads, "And Jesus
It reads, "And Jesus happened to be about
happened to be about
happened to be about 30 years of age when he began to preach
30 years of age when he began to preach
30 years of age when he began to preach who being
who being
who being in brackets in brackets as was supposed
in brackets in brackets as was supposed
in brackets in brackets as was supposed the son of Joseph in brackets.
Now what's all this? Number one, if the
Now what's all this? Number one, if the spirit of God is inspiring Luke to write
spirit of God is inspiring Luke to write
spirit of God is inspiring Luke to write that,
that,
that, this spirit of God didn't know how old
this spirit of God didn't know how old
this spirit of God didn't know how old Jesus was.
Jesus was.
Jesus was. Can you imagine this spirit of God
Can you imagine this spirit of God
Can you imagine this spirit of God supposed to be God? The Christian
supposed to be God? The Christian
supposed to be God? The Christian believes, the Pentecostals believe that
believes, the Pentecostals believe that
believes, the Pentecostals believe that the father is God, the son is God, and
the father is God, the son is God, and
the father is God, the son is God, and the Holy Ghost is God. But there are not
the Holy Ghost is God. But there are not
the Holy Ghost is God. But there are not three gods but one God. The Holy Ghost
three gods but one God. The Holy Ghost
three gods but one God. The Holy Ghost is God, the spirit of God is God. But
is God, the spirit of God is God. But
is God, the spirit of God is God. But this God, if he inspired Luke, this God
this God, if he inspired Luke, this God
this God, if he inspired Luke, this God didn't know how old Jesus was.
didn't know how old Jesus was.
didn't know how old Jesus was. So he's saying about 30 years. God
So he's saying about 30 years. God
So he's saying about 30 years. God doesn't know how old Jesus was when he
doesn't know how old Jesus was when he
doesn't know how old Jesus was when he began is about 30 about. He's not sure
began is about 30 about. He's not sure
began is about 30 about. He's not sure when he began to preach. Now in the
when he began to preach. Now in the
when he began to preach. Now in the latest translation, the word when he
latest translation, the word when he
latest translation, the word when he began to preach is taken out. You know
began to preach is taken out. You know
began to preach is taken out. You know why? The question arises, God Almighty
why? The question arises, God Almighty
why? The question arises, God Almighty waited for billions of years before
waited for billions of years before
waited for billions of years before coming down to earth. And from the age
coming down to earth. And from the age
coming down to earth. And from the age from day one to the age of 30, he didn't
from day one to the age of 30, he didn't
from day one to the age of 30, he didn't deliver one sentence for the benefit of
deliver one sentence for the benefit of
deliver one sentence for the benefit of mankind. What was he doing for 30 years?
mankind. What was he doing for 30 years?
mankind. What was he doing for 30 years? What did he do? One sentence to help
What did he do? One sentence to help
What did he do? One sentence to help mankind. He did nothing.
mankind. He did nothing.
mankind. He did nothing. Not one word, not one sentence.
Not one word, not one sentence.
Not one word, not one sentence. So when he began to preach for 30 years,
So when he began to preach for 30 years,
So when he began to preach for 30 years, he did nothing. So they took the word
he did nothing. So they took the word
he did nothing. So they took the word when he began to preaches out or the
when he began to preaches out or the
when he began to preaches out or the modern translation of the King James
modern translation of the King James
modern translation of the King James version the word is taken out and as was
version the word is taken out and as was
version the word is taken out and as was supposed are in brackets
supposed are in brackets
supposed are in brackets meaning Luke
meaning Luke
meaning Luke Luke didn't write those words ask any
Luke didn't write those words ask any
Luke didn't write those words ask any Christian scholar any Christian scholar
Christian scholar any Christian scholar
Christian scholar any Christian scholar what the name these words in brackets
what the name these words in brackets
what the name these words in brackets what do they mean what do they imply and
what do they mean what do they imply and
what do they mean what do they imply and they will honestly confess that it means
they will honestly confess that it means
they will honestly confess that it means that in the original manuscripts these
that in the original manuscripts these
that in the original manuscripts these words were not there as was supposed was
words were not there as was supposed was
words were not there as was supposed was not there. These are the words of the
not there. These are the words of the
not there. These are the words of the editors trying to help the reader. They
editors trying to help the reader. They
editors trying to help the reader. They have a right.
have a right.
have a right. They have a right. In the Quranic
They have a right. In the Quranic
They have a right. In the Quranic translation, we find the same. The
translation, we find the same. The
translation, we find the same. The translator, he puts words in brackets,
translator, he puts words in brackets,
translator, he puts words in brackets, meaning he's trying to convey to us that
meaning he's trying to convey to us that
meaning he's trying to convey to us that look, the words are not there, but this
look, the words are not there, but this
look, the words are not there, but this is what is implied. He's trying to help
is what is implied. He's trying to help
is what is implied. He's trying to help you. This help is appreciated
you. This help is appreciated
you. This help is appreciated in the Bible also appreciated.
in the Bible also appreciated.
in the Bible also appreciated. But now you see they can mint the word
But now you see they can mint the word
But now you see they can mint the word of man is the word of man. Now if Luke
of man is the word of man. Now if Luke
of man is the word of man. Now if Luke was inspired then those words in
was inspired then those words in
was inspired then those words in brackets are not inspired.
brackets are not inspired.
brackets are not inspired. But what they have done now in the
But what they have done now in the
But what they have done now in the Swedish Bible and the Danish Bible I
Swedish Bible and the Danish Bible I
Swedish Bible and the Danish Bible I check them up. The words are there
check them up. The words are there
check them up. The words are there as was supposed are still there but the
as was supposed are still there but the
as was supposed are still there but the brackets are thrown out.
brackets are thrown out.
brackets are thrown out. You know now what it means
You know now what it means
You know now what it means once the brackets are thrown out it
once the brackets are thrown out it
once the brackets are thrown out it becomes the words of Luke and if Luke
becomes the words of Luke and if Luke
becomes the words of Luke and if Luke was inspired they become the word of
was inspired they become the word of
was inspired they become the word of God. So the Christians are minting God's
God. So the Christians are minting God's
God. So the Christians are minting God's word at their own leisure anytime they
word at their own leisure anytime they
word at their own leisure anytime they want to. They can put words in, put it
want to. They can put words in, put it
want to. They can put words in, put it in brackets. Honest, very honest. And
in brackets. Honest, very honest. And
in brackets. Honest, very honest. And then take the brackets out in every
then take the brackets out in every
then take the brackets out in every translation other than in English, in
translation other than in English, in
translation other than in English, in the vernacular, in Zulu, Africans, in
the vernacular, in Zulu, Africans, in
the vernacular, in Zulu, Africans, in Udu, in Swedish, in in Norwegian, in
Udu, in Swedish, in in Norwegian, in
Udu, in Swedish, in in Norwegian, in every language of the world world other
every language of the world world other
every language of the world world other than English. The words are retained in
than English. The words are retained in
than English. The words are retained in the brackets thrown out. Maybe the
the brackets thrown out. Maybe the
the brackets thrown out. Maybe the Scandinavians don't know what brackets
Scandinavians don't know what brackets
Scandinavians don't know what brackets mean.
And it's very true that we do not
And it's very true that we do not believe in a verbal dictation. We
believe in a verbal dictation. We
believe in a verbal dictation. We believe in a complete total inspiration.